[Music]
the soft corals are one of the main
reasons that all this life is attracted
to the young gala
almost every available space on its once
smooth hull is covered with them
the soft corals are a refuge for
millions of small fish but they must
dart out from time to time to feed on
the plankton in the current and wherever
small fish gather it's not long before
something bigger turns up to eat them
Queensland gropers are real giants the
largest bony fish on the reef this young
gala resident is as big as a small car
which is why he's known locally as the
VW his mouths so big he could swallow
sharks and rays whole
but another resident has an even
deadlier bite see snakes have more
potent venom than many of their land
living relatives and they put it to good
use the olive sea snake doesn't really
look as if it's hunting but when its
small head disappears into a hole it can
trap and paralyze any fish hiding there
it's unusual for so many predators to be
swimming so close to each other but
there's so much to eat here most of the
action is on top of the wreck where the
strongest currents sweep in the most
food
for the small fish that live here to
venture into the blue water is a huge
gamble but they've got to do it to feed
if they get it wrong and go too far that
can mean the difference between life and
death
[Music]
the amount of marine life to be found in
the hundred meters of the wreck of the
young carla is truly staggering arguably
it's a greater concentration of life
than on any spot on the Barrier Reef
itself
[Music]
you